removal and clearance demolition work major hazard facilities. 44 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 HIGH RISK WORK LICENCE S A Licence t o Perform High Risk Work is recognised all around Australia as part of a national licensing syst em and is required for the following k inds of work: Ł Scaffolding over 4 metres Ł D ogging & Rigging Ł All cranes over three tonne capacit y o CV Crane o CN Crane o Slew ing Mobile Crane o Bridge & Gantry Crane Ł Boom - type elevating w ork platforms Œ over 11 metres Ł Hoists o Brick ies o Goods and Personnel Ł Concret e placing booms Ł Fork lift o Reach st ack er o Forklift truck o Order - pick ing fork lift truck Ł Pressure Equipment o Standard boiler operation o Advanced boiler operation o Turbine operation o Reciprocating steam engine operation 45 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 LOAD SHIFT ING EQUIPMENT The follow ing types of load shift ing are NOT classes of high risk w ork: Ł Cableway/Flying Foxes - LC Ł Front - end Loader/Backhoes - LB Ł Front End Loader - LL Ł Front End Loader (Skid Steer Types) - LS Ł Excavators - LE Ł D raglines - LD Ł D ozers - LZ However, as w ith all plant and equipment, the PCBU is required to provide training, instruction or sup ervision t hat is necessary t o prot ect all p ersons from risks to t heir health and safety arising from w ork activities (section 19 of the Act) . To provide evidence of competency, operators of load shifting equipment should be able to provide: Ł a previous NSA issued by (or on behalf of) a reg ulat or; or Ł a Statement of Attainment or other nationally accredited qualification for the plant operated; or Ł a Certificate of Competency for the plant or equipment issued b y (or on behalf of) a regulator; or Ł an industry competency card or evidence of training completed at a registered training organisation to a standard equal to NOHSC: 7019; or Ł confirmed evidence of appropriate on the job training from an experienced and competent operator and have records of that training verified by the compet ent operat or; or Ł confirmed evidence of previous experienceandcompetency verified by a current or previous employer. Operators must also demonstrate that their current level of competency is appropriate for the complexity of the work and the conditions of the w orksite. LICENCES (SERVICES) Licences are required for a ll electrical , p lumbing and gas f itt ing w ork. STORAGE AND DISPOSAL OF ASBESTOS Ł Where asbestos is stored, moved or removed from, a workplace for disposal, it shall be contained in a receptacle designed to prevent the escape of the asbestos into the air. Ł Asbestos moved or removed from a workplace for disposal shall be disposed of by burying it at an approved site. Ł All asbestos removal work to be performed as per the Code of Practice for the Safe Removal of Asbestos 2 nd Edition [NOHSC:2002(2005)] 46 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 OZONE DEPLETING SUBST ANCES Persons intending t o purchase, store, sell or dispose of ozone depleting substances and to service or repair equipment containing ozone depleting substances must obtain the relev ant licences or reg ist rations. EXPLOSIVES Licences and permits are required for use on site Ł Ammonium nit rate Ł Blasters licence Ł Classification of explosives Ł Fireworks licences Ł Importat ion of explosives licence Ł Manufacture of explosives licence Ł Permit t o purchase explosives Ł Storage of explosives licence Ł Transport of explosives by road licence If it is proposed to use explosives on a demolit ion site the demolit ion must not be commenced before aproposed demolition w ork plan has been submit t ed t o t he regulator, and the regulator has given approval to the commencement of t he work (and the reg ulat or may att ach conditions t o any such approval). All persons intending to operate a business and perform specific task s in the building andconstruction industry may require specific licences and/or registrations to enable t hem t o do t his legally. This informat ion can be obtained from; The Australian Business Licence a nd Informa tion Service (ABLIS) Website: https://www.business.gov.au ABLIS can identify relevant state, territory, local and Australian government licences, permits, approvals, regulat ions and codes of pract ice, allow ing you t o obtain detailed information and manage compliance obligations. Persons int ending t o occupy or otherwise work on, over or under roads and road related areas including footpat hs, must first obt ain authorisat ion and permission. 47 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 SEC T ION 6 : ACC IDENT & INC IDENT R EPOR T ING CONST RUCTION INCIDENTS This w ould include any occurrence that resulted in personal injury or damage to property, for example: A fall from height An elect rocut ion A trip or fall Hitt ing an underground utilit y An injury is 'a personal injury arising out of, or in the course of, employment if t he employment is a significant contribut ing factor to the injury.' Injuries can happen at w ork, travelling to and from work or w hile on a break from w ork. Injuries can also take place if a worker is travelling for w ork or visiting other w orkplaces or sites for the purposes of their job. Examples of different types of injuries: physical injuries Š such as lacerat ions, fractures, burns, industrial deafness psychiatric or psychological disorders Š such as anxiety or depression diseases Š such as Q - fever or w ork - related respiratory diseases aggravation of a pre - exist ing condit ion death from an injury or disease. 48 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 You might witness a ‚near - miss™ or ‚dangerous occurrence™ which may not have caused injury, but might nonetheless pose an immediate and significant risk to persons or property. This still needs to be reported so that action can be taken to prevent reoccurrence. You must report a ll a ccid ents, incidences, injuries or nea r misses to your s upervisor, no ma tter how minor. (i.e. an object falling from a scaffold nearly hitting someone, a person tripping over and hurting their leg and or a n eq uipment fa ilure tha t ca used da ma ge to p roperty) On t he event of a incident s and injuries it is a common pract ice for a Worker t o complete an Incident report as soon as practical and pass it onto a supervisor. In some cases, businesses and undertakings must notify their w ork health and safety regulator o f cert ain ‚notifiable incidents™ at w ork. NOTIFIABLE INCIDENTS Work health and safety regulators are committed to preventing w ork - related deaths and injuries. Not ifying the regulator of ‚notifiable incidents™ can help identify causes of incident s and prevent similar incidents at your w ork place and other w ork places. The WHS law requires: a ‚notifiable incident ™ t o be report ed t o the regulator immediat ely after becoming aware it has happened if the regulator ask s Š writ ten not ification w ithin 48 hours of the request , and t he incident site t o be preserved unt il an inspect or arrives or direct s otherw ise (subject to some exceptions). Failing t o report a ‚not ifiable incident ™ is an offence and penalt ies apply . What is a ‚notifiable incident™? A ‚not ifiable incident™ is: the death of a person a ‚serious injury or illness™, or a ‚dangerous incident ™ arising out of the conduct of a business or undertaking at a w orkplace. ‚Notifiable incidents™ may relate to any person Š w hether an employee, cont ractor or member of the public. Serious injury or illness : Only the most serious health or safety incidents are notifiable, and only if they are w ork - related. They trigger requirements to preserve the incident site pending further direct ion from the regulat or. Serious injury or illness must be notified if the person requires any of the types of treatment in the following table: 49 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 Typ es of treatment Examp le Immediate treatment as an in - pat ient in a hospital Admission int o a hospital as an in - patient for any duration, even if the stay is not overnight or longer. It d oes not include: Out- patient treatment provided by the emergency section of a hospit al (i.e. not requiring admission as an in - patient) Admission for corrective surgery w hich does not immediat ely follow the injury (e.g. to fix a fract ured nose). Immediate treatment for the amputat ion of any part of t he body Amput ation of a limb such as arm or leg, body part such as hand, foot or t he t ip of a finger, toe, nose or ear. Immediate treatment for a serious head injury Fractured skull, loss of consciousness, blood clot or bleeding in the brain, damage to the skull to the extent that it is likely to affect organ/face function. Head injuries resulting in temporary or permanent amnesia. It d oes not include: A bump to the head resulting in a minor contusion or headache. Immediate treatment for a serious eye injury Injury t hat results in or is lik ely t o result in the loss of t he eye or t ot al or part ial loss of vision. Injury that involves an object penetrating the eye (for example metal fragment, w ood chip). Exposure of the eye to a substance w hich poses a risk of serious eye damage. It d oes not include: Eye exposure to a substance that merely causes irritation. Immediate treatment for a serious burn A burn requiring int ensive care or critical care which could require compression garment or a skin graft. It d oes not include: A burn that merely requires washing the w ound and applying a dressing. Immediate treatment for the separation of sk in from an underlying t issue (such as de - gloving or scalping ) Separation of skin from an underlying tissue such that tendon, bone or muscles are exposed (de - gloving or scalping). It d oes not include: Minor lacerat ions. 50 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 Typ es of treatment Examp le Immediate treatment for a spinal injury Injury t o the cervical, thoracic, lumbar or sacral vertebrae including the discs and spinal cord. It d oes not include: Acute back strain. Immediate treatment for the loss of a bodily funct ion Loss of consciousness, loss of movement of a limb or loss of t he sense of smell, taste, sight or hearing, or loss of funct ion of an internal organ. It d oes not include: Mere faint ing A sprain or strain. Immediate treatment for serious lacerat ions D eep or extensive cuts that cause muscle, tendon, nerve or blood vessel damage or permanent impairment. D eep punct ure wounds. Tears of w ounds to the flesh or tissues Š t his may include stitching to prevent loss of blood and/or other treatment to prevent loss of bodily function and/or infect ion. Medical treatment w ithin 48 hours of exposure to a substance ‚Medical treatment™ is treatment provided by a