minimal levels of performance or quality for a specific hazard, w ork process or product. If an Aust ralian S t andard is listed in t he Act and/or Reg ulat ions, it becomes a part of it and it must be followed. INDUSTRY GUIDELINES WHS /OHS l aw s apply to all w orkplaces in Australia and are defined in the Act s and R egulat ions , and are support ed by Codes of P ract ice. The Guidelines support that leg islation and, where appropriate, refer to it. The Guidelines often provide case studies illustrating solutions that have proven successful elsewhere and include t ools such as check list s and forms t hat you c an adapt t o your own work place. GUIDANCE NOTES Guidance notes provide practical guidance for employers and w orkers on the management of risks to safety and health risks that may arise in relation to specific hazards. They differ from the authoritat ive advice of a code of pract ice by allowing duty holders wider discretion to choose the options that best suit their circumstances. Guidance material contribut es t o the overall state of k nowledge regarding hazards, risks and controls and may be tendered as evidence in court proceedings. 9 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 LEGISLATION PYRAMID ROLES, RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF DUTY HOLDERS A DUTY O F CAR E is a legal or moral obligation to ensure the safety or well - being of others. A duty of care exists w hen someone's actions could reasonably be expected to affect other people. EVERYONE ha s a d uty of ca re in relation to safety in the workplace. a) A PERSON UNDERTAKING A BUSINESS OR UNDERTAKING (PCBU) 10 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 The Employer , or PCBU , holds the PRIMARY Duty of Care : This includes: Providing a w orking environment that does not pose a risk to health and safety Providing and maintaining safe plant and structures Providing s afe syst ems of work Provision for s afe use, handling and storage of plant and subst ances Provision of adequat e facilities Provision of t raining, inst ruct ion or supervision to carry out work t asks in a safe w ay It is t he responsibilit y of the PCB U/Employer t o carry out the general statutory duty of care by proceeding, in a systematic w ay, t o: Identify hazards; Assess the seriousness of the risks resulting from the hazards; D etermine appropriate risk management measures . (See Section 2: Risk Management) Further role s and responsibilit ies of a PCBU under t he legislat ion include: Report ing notifiable incident s (see S ection 6: Accidents and Incidents ) Consulting w ith work ers ( through a WHS Committ ee for example) Ensuring compliance w ith notices issued under the Act Ensuring the provision of training and instruction to w orkers about health and safety Ensuring that Health and Safety Representatives receive their t raining entitlement B) WORK HEATH AND SAFETY COMMITTEE MEMBERS The role of the Work Health and Safety Committee Members includes, but is not limited to: Provide consultat ion t o t he PCBU on WHS issues at the w orkplace Facilit at e co - operation between the PCBU and workers Division 2 Pri m ary d u ty of care 19 Pri m ary d u ty of care (1 ) A pers on condu ct i ng a b us i nes s or undert aki ng m us t ens ure, s o fa r as i s reas onabl y pr act i c abl e, t he heal t h and s a fet y of: ( a) w o rk ers engaged, o r caus ed t o be engag ed by t he p ers on; and (b ) workers whos e act i vi t i es i n carryi ng out work are i nfl uenced o r di rect ed by t he p ers on, whi l e t he worke rs ar e at work i n t he bus i nes s or u ndert aki ng. 11 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 Assist with the development of health and safety policies, procedures and syst ems More information on Health and Safety Committees can be found under Part 5, D ivision 4 of the Act . Funct ions of t he Committ ee can be found under sect ion 77. C) HEALTH & SAFET Y REPRESENTATIVES (HSR) Under S e c t ion 50 of the Act , w orkers are entitled to request the election of an HSR. There is one HSR per ‚work group™. The role of the HSR includes (see section 68): Ł R epresent w orkers (in their work group) on health and safety matters. Ł Monitor measures taken by the PCBU for compliance w it h t he Act Ł Investigate complaints f ro m w orkers w it hin t heir work group Inquire as to health and safety risks to the workers T o inspect the w orkplace at any time if there is an accident, a hazardous situat ion or if someone™s healt h and safet y is at immediate risk . Be an active member of the WHS committee Refer t o t he Mod el Cod e of Pra ctice W ork H ea lth and S afety C onsultation, C o - op eration and C o - ordination . D) SUPERVISOR A S upervisor is responsible for monit oring work ers to ensure safet y and compliance st andards are met throughout tasks. E) FIRST AID OFFICER A First Aid Officer is responsible for : monit oring and maintaining first aid facilit ies, administ ering first aid. F) WORKERS W hilst at w ork, it is t he responsibilit y of t he w ork er t o : take reasonable care for his or her ow n health and safety; and take reasonable care that his or her acts or omissions do not adversely affect the health and safety of other persons; and comply, so far as the worker is reasonably able, with any reasonable instruction that is given by the person conducting the business or undertaking cooperate with any reasonable policy or procedure of the personconduct ing thebusiness or undertaking relating to health or safetyat the w orkplace that has been notified to workers. 12 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 Rememb er! Ł D o not t ake any unnecessary risk s . Ł Alw ays w ear personal prot ective clot hing and equipment supplied by t he PCBU. Ł Never report for or work under t he influence of drugs or alcohol, and never bring drug s or alcohol t o the w ork place (remember also being t ired and fat igued can also affect your reasoning abilities). Ł If you have t o smoke , only do so in designated smoking areas. O THER DUTY HOLDERS The duty extends, to the extent that may be approp riat e in t he circumst ances, t o: An ow ner or occupier of the w orkplace. A person who designs, constructs, manufactures, imports, installs or supplies a w orkplace or any part or component of a w ork place. A PCBU or other person who fa ils to comply with a d uty under the Act is g uilty of a n offence. We are all accountable b y LAW for wh at we con trol within th e workplace. Th e Heal th y an d Safety Legislation is h ere to PROTECT YOU Penalties do exist for an y deliberate breach of th e Act or its Regulation s. Th ere are NO EXE MPTIONS! 13 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 SEC T ION 2 : RISK MANAGEMENT Risk M anagement is a systematic process for addressing hazards in the w orkplace. THE 5 STEPS FOR RISK MANAGEMENT HAZ ARD refers to a situation or thing that has the potential to harm a person. RISK is t he possibilit y t hat harm (death, injury or illness) might occur when exposed to a hazard. 1 Identify the Hazard 2 Assess the Risk 3 Co nsult and Repo rt 4 Control the Hazard 5 Review 14 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 All pot ential hazards should be ident ified and assessed in consult at ion w ith workers and/or their representatives and then controlled. Thew ork plan should further ident ifycompliancerequirements such as licensing, t raining and supervision. 1. HAZ ARD IDENTIFICATION Appropriate steps must be taken to identify all reasonably foreseeable hazards arising from w ork t hat may affect th e health and safety of w ork ers or ot her persons. Hazards are generally classified into six hazard types: Physical Œ (Falling from height , collapse, hot work ) Chemical Œ (Glues, cement , SMF, asbest os) Biological Œ (Tetanus, vermin, HIV, Hepatitis A, B, C) Ergonomic Œ (Manual handling hazards) Radiation Œ (Laser, microwave, solar etc) Psycho - social Œ (S tress, depression, bullying) Identification of hazards should include hazards already present at the site and hazards that could arise from plant, equipment, materials, substances and the w ork process. Identification may be b y: Ł D irect work place ob servation Ł Consultat ion with Workers Ł S tatistics It is in t he interest s of all parties on sit e t o identify anyt hing in the work place that has the potential to cause injury or disease. 15 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 This includes but is not limited t o: Ł Open excavation Ł Inhalat ion of dust, fibres, vapours and gases. Ł Noise and vibrat ion Ł Extremes of temperature and humidity Ł Bad housekeeping / poor access - egress Ł Vehicle hazards both construction and public Ł Poor light ing / visibilit y Ł Live pow er and w iring Ł D angerous goods Ł Confined spaces Ł Environmental hazards Œ such as st ormwat er, fire, pollution, noise, dust Ł Fire Ł D rugs and alcohol Ł Hygiene Ł Inexperience / carelessness Ł Mobile phones Ł Bullying/workplace harassment Ł Trips and falls Ł Working at heights Ł Manual and mechanical handling 2. ASSESSMENT OF RISK Once we have identified a hazard, w e need to determine the associated risk. We do t his by tak ing into considerat ion t he follow ing informat ion: Ł The lik elihood that t hey w ill do harm (Probabilit y); Ł The severity of the harm they could do (Consequence); Ł The number of times people could be affected by them (Frequency); There are many risk matrices available, of different levels of complexity that can be used to help you calculate the risk rating. Below is a simple example. Risk Hig h (3) Medium (3) Hig h (6) Hig h (9) Medium (2) Low (2) Medium (4) Hig h (6) Low (1) Low (1) Low (2) Medium (3) Low (1) Medium (2) High (3) Likelihood 3. CONSULT AND REPORT By drawing on the experience, k now ledge and ideas of w ork ers, you are more lik ely to identify all hazards and choose effective control measures. Workers should be encouraged to report any hazards and health and safety problems immediately so that risks can be managed before an incident occurs. If there is a health and safety committee for the w orkplace, it should also