work commences. A WHS management plan sets out the arrangements to manage work health and safet y on a construct ion project. 59 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 The WHS management plan must detail any site - specific WHS rules that the principal contractor requirespersons to comply w ithand the arrangements for ensuring thatall persons at the w orkplace are informed of these rules. The rules should be simple and cl ear and, w here appropriate, they should show who each rule applies to. All parties should be made aware of t heir individual responsibilit ies as t hey relat e t o Ł the job requirements Ł hazards, Ł site rules Ł priorities Ł emergency procedures Ł public safet y Ł environmental or any other requirement. The WHS Management Plan s hould provide Ł A definition of t he w ork site (boundaries, structures, etc.) Ł A description of work met hod for w ork to be undertak en, tak ing into account t he type and quantities of equipment Ł A descript ion of t he met hods proposed for handling and disposing of mat erials and in particular, hazardous materials and substances Ł Met hods for maint aining access and egress to t he work place Ł A descript ion of t he proposed hoardings, scaffolding, fencing and any overhead sidewalk prot ect ion Ł The location of any hazards Ł The effect the w ork may have on people and property adjoining the w ork site Have an actio n plan in c ase o f any e me rge ncy inc luding e vac uatio n pro cedure Ł All workers must be aware of the work plan relat ing to t heir area of w ork. Ł All safety requirements should be determined during the planning stage. Ł A clean and tidy workplace promotes good health, safety and welfare. TOOLBOX MEETINGS (WHS) This t ype of consultation is used to relate specific task and job requirements to establish best safety practice for the job to be undertaken. ACCESS AND EGRESS When referring to access and egress, with respect to WH S, we define it as safe entry and safe exit during normal w ork activities and in the case of an emergency. Access ways must not be used for storage of materials or debris and be suitably lit. 60 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 PROCEDURES FOR PERFORMING WORK T ASKS AND USING EQUIPMENT SAFELY It is important to be mindful t hat all plant and equipment is only used for t he purpose for w hich it was designed for. Electrica l Leads and Wiring L eads and w iring must be tested by an authorised person and tagged. Safety Fencing or Ba rricades Isolat ion cont rols must be used to k eep out unaut horised personnel. Warning Barricades These barricades call your attention to a hazard but offer no physical protect ion. They are usually barrier tape, mesh, stands or posts. Protective Barricades These barricades call your attention to a hazard and provide some physical protection. These can include hoarding panels, temporary fencing In all cases, signage must be erected on either side of the barrier stating the nature of the enclosed hazard. Traffic Control Traffic control is an important cont rol measure t o ensure site and public safet y. Persons int ending t o occupy or otherwise w ork on, over or under roads and road related areas including footpat hs, must first obt ain authorisat ion and permission from the relevant authorities. Formwork The construction of formw ork for concrete st ructures must be performed by a qualified person. Stressed Concrete and Tilt up Construction Installing / constructing stressed concrete and t ilt up construct ion or pre - formed concret e panels requires the w ork to be performed by t rained and qualified people i.e. licensed dogmen/riggers. 61 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 SITE AMENIT IES The PCBU is required to ensure access to amenities and facilities such as t oilet s, and w ater for drink ing and hand w ashing. DR UGS AND ALCO HOL D rug and alcohol int oxicat ion can impair your abilit y t o follow instructions and operate machinery safely. You must NOT use or b e int oxicated by drugs or alcohol whilst at work . Safe w ork practices for not using or being affected by drugs and alcohol at w ork include: Having responsible alcohol or drug consumption as part of t he w orkplace culture (at w ork functions, responsible provision of alcohol including food and non - alcoholic drinks) Workplaces providing support for isolated w orkers who have extended separat ion from family or friends Your w orkplace has a drug and alcohol policy and are st aff familiar w ith it (t his oft en includes drug and alcohol test ing). SMOKING There is no leg al oblig ation for an employer to provide a smok ing area for their employees. How ever, as t here may be employees w ho do smok e, if possible, it is pract ical to nominate a designated area as this does allow some control over the sit uat ion. Sm ok ing t hen becomes only to be permitted in these identified designated areas. Remember: Smoking may only be permitted in designated areas. BULLYING AND HARASSMENT Everyone has a right not to be bullied or harassed at w ork. There are national anti - bullying laws and state or territory health and safety bodies that can help people w it h bullying and harassment in t he w orkplace. A work er is bullied at work if: a person or group of people repeatedly act unreasonably t ow ards t hem or a group of workers the behaviour creates a risk to health and safety. Unreasonable behaviour includes vict imising, humiliat ing , int imidat ing or t hreat ening. Whether a behaviour is unreasonable can depend on w hether a reasonable person might see the behaviour as unreasonable in the circumstances. Examples of bullying include: behaving aggressively teasing or practical jokes pressuring someone to behave inappropriately 62 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 excluding someone from w ork - related events or unreasonable w ork demands. Expected w orkplace behaviours include: behaving in a responsible and professional manner, treat others in the w orkplace w ith courtesy and respect Listen and respond appropriat ely t o t he views and concerns of ot hers, Be fair and honest in their dealings w ith others HO USEKEEPING Good housekeeping is essential to a systematic approach to maintaining an orderly and tidy w ork place promot ing efficiency, in all areas. How workplaces can keep sites clean t o prevent injuries includes: Ł st ating in contracts that each t rade is responsible for cleaning up after t heir own work Ł creating a safety plan that supports good housekeeping, including designated delivery and storage areas, waste and debris management, walkways, vehicle parking and site rules that include housekeeping duties Ł Supervisors onsite to make sure everyone follows the housekeeping rules STORAGE Ł To ensure that the plant and materials cannot, w hile stacked or stored, fall on a person Ł In a manner that allows safe retrieval Ł Flammable or hazardous materials must be stored as per t he relevant SD S informat ion. REMO VAL OF DEBRIS AND WASTE D ebris and waste p roduct should be progressively removed from the sit e in such a manner so as to prevent: Ł Any build - up of debris or w aste t hat could affect access and egress on site. Ł Any build - up of debris or w aste t hat could b ecome a fire hazard. Ł Any build up on a floor or surface that could affect its integrity. 63 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 SEC T ION 9 : THE ENVIR ONMENT A major consideration of a ny construction project in any S tate or Territory is the environment, issues may include: Ł Camp or Work sit es Ł Vegetation / Fauna Ł Fire M anagement Ł Waste and Waste Water Ł Sediment Control For more information cont act : EPA South Australia www.epa.sa.gov.au 1800 623 445 NT EPA https://ntepa.nt.gov.au/ (08) 8924 4218 QLD Dept of Environment and Science www.ehp.qld.gov.au 13 74 68 EPA Victoria www .epa.vic.gov.au 1300 372 842 ESP Ta smania https://epa.tas.gov.au/epa (03) 6165 4599 EPA Western Australia http://www.epa.wa.gov.au/ (08) 6364 7000 Access Ca nberra 13 22 81 https://www.accesscanberra.act.gov.au/app/answers/detail/a_id/3149/~/environ ment - protect ion LITTER Bins are to be provided SITE DISTURBANCE S ite disturbances must be minimised. DUST Site disturbances and dust must be minimised. SEDIMENT BARRIERS Wat er w ays must be prot ected from surface w ater run - off. ST OCKPILED MATERIALS Stock piled materials must be prevented from contaminating the environment. CONCRETE, BRICKWORK AND PLASTERING WORK Concrete materials must be prevented from contaminating the environment. 64 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 BRICK CUTTING Brick cutting must be performed aw ay from public areas. All waste w ater from brick cutt ing must be controlled. PAINTING Refer to the SDS for information on the storage, use and disposal of paint products. RESPECTING ABO RIGINAL HERITAGE When w orking in any S tate or Territory i t is import ant t o be mindful of providing t he protection and preservation of the Aboriginal heritage areas and historical relics. This may include sourcing information about: Ł Tradit ional landholders Ł Sacred sites Ł Access t o and from herit age sit es Ł The laws in relation to protection and preservation If suspected Aboriginal herit age items, including st one artefact s, heart hs or burials are exposed during any construction act ivities, w ork must st op. Contact your relevant state or territory representatives for further informatio n and advice before proceeding. 65 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 Australian Capital Territory Heritage Act 2004 Heritage Ob jects Act 1991 Environment, Planning and S ustainable D evelopment D irect orat e Œ Environment 13 22 81 New South Wales Heritage Act 1977 Nat ional Parks and Wildlife Amendment (Aboriginal Ownership) Act 1996 Office of Environment and Heritage 1300 361 967 Northern Territory Aboriginal Sacred Sites Act 1989 Heritage Conservation Act 1991 Aboriginal Areas Prot ection Aut hority 08 999 4365 Queensland Aboriginal Cultural Herit ag e Act 2003 Torres Strait Islander Cultural Heritage Act 2003 Cultural Heritage Unit 1300 378 401 S out h Aust ralia Aboriginal Herit ag e Act 1988 D epartment for Environment, Heritage and Aboriginal Affairs D ivision of S tate Aboriginal Affairs 08 8226 8930 Tasmania Aboriginal Relics Act 1975 Aboriginal Herit ag e Tasmania 1300 487 045 Victoria Aboriginal Herit ag e Act 2006 Heritage Act 1994 Aboriginal Vict oria 1800 762 003 West ern Australia Aboriginal Herit ag e Act 1972 D epartment of Planning, Lands and Heritage Heritage D irect orate (08) 6551 8000 66 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 HAZARD REPORT Ar ea/Loc ality of haz ar d : Date : 1 S o ut h R o a d , T h eba r t o n S A 5 0 3 1 Name––––––––––––––––––. –––––––..––. (Name of person preparing report) DESCRIPTION OF HAZARD ( Inc lude area and tas k inv olv ed, any equipm ent, tools , people inv o lv ed) Haz ard 1: Haz ard 2: POSSIBLE REMEDIES (Lis t any s uggestions y ou m