than 11m) Mast climbers Work boxes, building maint enance units, portable or mobile fabricat ed plat forms Or any other platform that provides a working area and is designed to prevent a fall. M as t Clim ber S c a ffo l d Sc isso r Lift FALLING OBJECT S Objects have the potential to fall onto or hit people at the workplace or adjoining areas if precautions are not taken. Examples could include: Ł an object free falling from a st ruct ure, such as roof scaffolding, t ools, rock, soil and brick s Ł an object free falling from lift ing machinery, a vehicle or other plant equipment, including loads being lifted that are not well secured or are unstable Ł an object or material ejected w hile using machinery or hand tools 27 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 EXCAVATIONS/T RENCHING A PCBU must manage risks to health and safety associated w ith a person f alling int o an excavation , including: being trapped by the collapse of an excavation (unplanned collapse) being st ruck by a falling t hing while w orking in an excavation being exposed to an airborne contaminant while working in an excavation. the nature of the excavation w ork, including the range of possible methods of carrying out t he w ork the means of entry into and exit from the excavation, if applicable. Any construction w ork, including any work connected w ith an excavation, that is carried out in or near a shaft or trench w ith an excavated depth of greater than 1.5 metres , or a t unnel, is considered to be 'hig h risk construction work ' for w hich a S afe Work Method Statement (SWMS) must be prepared. Entry of personnel into areas immediately adjacent to trenches or other excavations ( or areas immediately adjacent) that are 1.5 metres in depth or greater is not permitted unless the sides are benched, battered or shored. All trenches or excavations must be barricaded orflagged off towarn people of their location and to prevent accidental or unauthorised entry. A qualified Geot echnical Engineer should be consulted t o provide a w ritt en specificat ion t o guide t he excavat ion activit ies including recommendat ions for temporary support systems, battering and other forms of retaining structures if necessary. BENCHING 28 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 BAT TERING/SLOPING SHO RING S t ock piled mat erials , windrows , heavy loads and vehicles must be o utside of the zone of influence . Refer to t he Excavation Work Code of P ractice. 29 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 Procedures must be follow ed t o ident ify any underg round services w hich may b e present in the excavation area, before excavation begins. This may include using D ial Before You D ig plans, pot holing or using a cable locat or. UNPLANNED COLLAPSE The st ruct ural collapse of trenches, w alls, buildings, cranes etc. can cause serious injury or death to occur for w orkers in the immediate area of the collapse and due to the unexpected, sudden nature of a collapse, there is usually no time to respond. Work ers should check the stabilit y of a structure during every stage of its construct ion, for example by using by lateral or temporary supports to make the structure st urdier . Exclusion zones can stop unauthorised personnel entering the dangerous area and appropriate PPE such as hard hats and safety footwear s hould be used as a last resort. DUST D ust is a common air pollut ant , particularly in parts of t he w orld w ith dry land. D ust can cause eye irritation and upper respiratory discomfort, particularly for people w it h exist ing healt h issues such as ast hma. The main practice used to control dust on earthworks sites is the application of water t o k eep soil moist ure high enough to prevent dust generat ion. The following construction a ctivities can contrib ute to d ust levels when working in construction: Ł Earthworks Œ as mentioned above Ł Also be aw are of dust arising from the cutting of materials such as pavers st one, brick or cement . Ł Saw ing wood can also create dust particles, especially w hen power tools are ut ilised NOISE Work - related noise - induced hearing loss is a preventable but irreversible condition that affects many Australian workers. Too much noise at w ork can lead t o temporary or permanent hearing loss or tinnit us Š ringing in the ears. Hearing damage can occur from extended exposure to noise or exposure t o very loud impact or explosive sounds. Examples of construction activities that pose a noise hazard unless managed include: Operating 120 Rock drill - Typical sound level in dB = 120 Operat ing a Chainsaw - Typical sound level in dB = 110 30 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 Working in a S heet metal workshop - Typical sound level in dB = 100 Using a Law n mower - Typical sound level in dB = 90 Operating a Front - end loader - Typical sound level in dB = 85. Refer to the M odel Code of Practice ‚ Managing Noise and Preventing Hearing Loss at Work ™. 31 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 CONFINED SPACE S An enclosed or partially enclosed space i s not int ended or designed primarily for human occupancy . Refer t o the Model Code of Pra ctice for Confined Sp aces It m ay have an atmosphere that is contaminated, deficient or enriched w ith oxygen or may be explosive . Also engulfment, suffocation or drow ning could occur. Special requirements for working in a confined sp ace : Permit system for access and for w ork Atmospheric Testing Provision for rescue and First Aid S potters /Stand - by persons being posted Confi ne d space crite ri a Confi ne d space ? Des c r iption of the s pac e and activity A B C D If the a nsw er to A, B, C a nd a t lea st one of D is yes, then the spa ce is a confined spa ce. Is the spa ce enclosed or pa rtia lly enclosed Is the spa ce not desi gned or intended to be occupied by a person Is the s pa ce desi gned or intended to be, a t normal a tm ospheric pres sure w hile a ny person i s in the spa ce Does the s pa ce pr esent a risk from : Harmful a irborne or flammable contamina nts An unsa fe oxygen level Engulfm ent Sew er w ith a ccess via a vertica l la dder Yes Dislodgi ng g ra in from a silo w ith sole a ccess through a m a nhole a t the top Yes Dislodgi ng a sl udge blocka ge in a dra i n pit Yes Interna l ins pection of a new , clea n ta nk prior to com m issioning No Stockta ke usi ng a n LP G forklift in a fruit cool store No Installi ng i nsula tion in a roof ca vity No 32 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 ELECTRICITY A PCBU is required to ensure that: w orkers and other persons are not exposed to electrical risks, as far as is reasonably practicable Powerlines: Work ing in the vicinit y of energised elect ric lines can expose w orkers to health and safety risks including death, electric shock or ot her injury caused direct ly or indirect ly by electricit y. If you are operating machinery with an elevating component such as cranes, elevating w ork platforms and earthmoving equipment such as excavators, you need to be aware of the safe approach limit s for people w ork ing near pow erlines . These are available fro m your S t ate or T errit ory Regulator. Only work within designa ted safety zones a ccording to app licable State/Territory guidelines Electrical cords a nd equipment : Residual Current Devices (RCDs) are used in specified high risk environments . An RCD is a device that instantly breaks an electric circuit to prevent serious harm from an ongoing elect ric shock. R C D Elect rical inst allationwork is t o be carried outby qualifiedelectricians and that testing and compliance requirements are met Leads and w iring must be tested by an authorised person and tagged. Exposed moving mechanical components, such as gears, drive shafts, pulleys must be guarded 33 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 PLANT AND EQUIPMENT OPERATION 'Load shifting ' generally refers t o the operat ion of front - end loaders, excavators , back hoes and dozers. Less common forms of load shifting are the operation of cableways and flying foxes and draglines. Forklift operat ion is not regarded as load shifting Œ it ™s now high risk work . Load shifting (mobile plant eq uip ment) Backh oe Skid steer loader Excavator Bulldozer Front - en d Loader Forklift Truck Œ is now high risk work and a High Risk Work Lice nce is re quire d 34 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 Load shifting equipment is to be operated safely and competently. For more information about validatable evidence for operation competency see SECTION 5 : LICENCES & CERTIFICATES OF COMPETENCY Responsibilities : The person in control of load shifting equipment is responsible for: ensuring that any hazards are identified and controlled and that others w ho may be affected by the load shifting w orkare advised of the hazards and control measures. ensuring that the necessary communication channels are in place in order to receive and/or give instructions t o perform t heir dut ies safely. followingsafew ork practices and take action to prevent any personbeing placed at risk by the use of the plant. A person conducting a business or undertaking is responsible for: ensuring that operators have received adequate information and training, and are supervised, so that any risks to health and safety are minimised. The amount of informat ion, instruct ion, training or supervision required must t ak e into account the complexit y of the tasks, the operator's current skills and ability and other w orkers on site. ongoing t raining t o maintain t he operator's compet ency level, particularly w it h new models of plant or equipment, and ensure new work ers are able t o undertak e t he w ork safely. the application of all other general duties regarding health and safety. T RAFFIC AND MOBILE PLANT (NON - LOAD SHIFTING VEHICLES ) Vehicles an d non - load shifting equipment are to be operated safely and compet ently. A r elevant State Government licence is required to drive your mobile equipment on the road. All traffic, but especially construction traffic, poses hazards to workers and the public because of the follow ing: Ł nature of their unpredictable movement (mobile plant can move unpredictably) Ł operator blind spots. Ł Mobile plant utilises combust ion engines and have the associat ed hazards of fuels, oils and lubricants (especially t hat some fluids are pressurised). 35 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 Vehicle or mobile plant accidents can include: public vehicles