passing through t he w ork site mobile plant w it hin the work sit e delivery truck s on sit e HAZ ARDOUS MANUAL TASKS (O R MANUAL HANDLING ) A hazardous manual task means a task that requires a person to lift, lower, push, carry or ot herwise move, hold or restrain any person, animal or thing, either w it h high, sudden, repeated or sustained force, repetitive movement, aw kw ard posture or exposure to vibration. Examples of construction t ask s might be considered a hazardous manual task include: Ł Moving a bag of concrete Ł Using a vibration plate (plat e compact or for compact ion of soil/rubble) for a sust ained period of t ime Ł Lifting t ools and equipment , lik e a t oolbox or jerry can of fuel 36 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 HOT AND COLD WORKING ENVIRONMENTS Heat Stress: Work ers in the construction industry in Australia are often exposed to hot w ork ing condit ions wit h hazards such as heat stress and solar ultraviolet (UV) radiation needing t o be managed . Four major controls for prevent ing solar UV radiation exposure: Ł apply sunscreen - Approximat ely 20 minut es before start ing and regular top up throughout the day (during breaks) Ł w ear a hat (broad brimmed) Ł w ear clothes that cover the arms and legs Ł w ork in the shade Heat stress sympt oms: Ł vomit ing or nausea Ł clumsy, light headed and/or fainting Ł pale, cool, clammy sk in Ł rapid breathing and shortness of breath Ł rapid, weak pulse Work ers should ensure they are drinking plenty of water and take responsibility for t heir skins™ health by applying sunscreen and sun prot ect ive PP E. Cold stress: When t he body is unable t o w arm itself,seriouscold - related illnesses and injury may occur and permanent tissue damage and death may result. Cold stress is associated w it h low t emperat ure, high air movement and humidit y, for example, from a blast of cold, wet w ind. Cold w ork ing conditions should be managed as seriously as hot work ing condit ions and appropriate cont rol measures and PPE employed. 37 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 SEC T ION 3 : PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT (PPE) This section addresses the use of the essential protective clothing and equipment including ident ifying the correct select ion and fit ting. All measures must be taken to ensure the health and safety of w orkers, residents and the general public as far as is reasonably practicable in strict accordance with the respective S tate/Territory . All personnel must understand that PPE is the lowest level of the control hierarchy . When hazards in the workplace can't be eliminated or reduced by other risk cont rols, personal protective equipment and clothing (PPE) can be used to limit exposure to the harmful effects of the hazard. 38 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 Types, purpose and use of PPE Ł UV protective clothing a nd sunscreen C onst ruct ion w ork erswho spend more thanfour hours a day out side, shoulduseall four major controls for prevent ing solar UV radiat ion exposure: apply sunscreen (30+ is recommend ed) Approximat ely 20 minut es before starting and regular top up throughout the day (during breaks) wear a broad brimmed hat wear clothes tha t cover the a rms a nd legs work in the shad e (where p ractica b le) S afety footwear Foot injuries can be debilitat ing, resulting in t ime away from w ork or difficult y performing a job. Wearing safety shoes or boots can help prevent many foot injuries in t he follow ing ways. prot ect from falling & flying objects Œ steel cap toe/Kevlar toe protect from punctures protect from cutting hazards protect from electrical hazards prevent slips, trips & falls prevent fatigue prevent burns Œ heat resistant protect from extreme weather Œ w ater resist ant Safety toed footwear is used so your feet and toes do not get crushed or damaged and is usually a requirement for accessing construction sites. Other t ypes of safety footwear might include wa ter resistant , heat resistant footwear or electrical ha z a rd shoes w hich should be w or n w hen w orking in high volt age scenarios Ł H a rd hat/head protection S afeguard against falling objects and other flying debris Ł E ye p rotection Safety glasses help protect eyes from flying objects, radiation from hot objects, and other vision - threatening dangers. 39 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 Ł H ea ring p rotection Earplugs and noise reduct ion t ools are helpful in industrial facilit ies, construction, and transportation. Earmuffs can provide equal pressure distribution and maximum high - frequency attenuation. Ł G loves For hand protection when w orking w ith sharp objects, chemicals, rugged or sensitive materials, and extreme temperatures. Ł Ha rnesses A safety harness is a safety belt w orn on the body as a fall arrest method when working at height. It™s a critical component of fall protect ion systems used when w orking at height. A full body harness is recommended by t he M odel Code of Practice. The use and maintenance of safety harnesses must adhere to the standards set by Safe Work Australia™s Model Code of Practice and the Work Health and Safety (WHS) Regulations. When using a safety ha rness, follow these crucial g uid elines to ensure safety a nd comp lia nce: Inspection: As mandated by the WHS Regulations, inspect the harness before each use. This includes checking for any signs of wear, damage, or defect s t hat could compromise safety. Regular inspections are essential to ensure the harness remains in proper w ork ing condit ion. Fit: The harness must be properly adjusted to fit the user snugly and comfortably, as recommended by t he Model Code of Pract ice. A correctly fit ting harness is crucial for effect ive fall protect ion and to minimize the risk of injury. Continuous Use: Alw ays w ear the harness as required by the task and environmental conditions, in accordance with t he WHS Reg ulat ions. It should not be removed based on personal judgment or perceived lack of necessit y, as doing so could compromise safety and violat e safet y prot ocols." Reference: Safe Work Australia's Model Code of P ractice: Managing the R isk of Falls at Workplaces: https://www.safeworkaustralia.gov.au/doc/model - code - practi ce - managing - risk - falls - workpl aces Ł R espiratory protection Used where there may be exposure to harmful levels of chemicals or dust in the air. The two types of respiratory protection are open circuit and closed circuit . Op en circuit sets are those w here your expired (outgoing) breath is passed to w aste via an exhalation valve incorporated in the face mask e.g. Self - Contained Breathing Apparatus (SCBA) Œ air supply carried by user on backpack. Closed circuit sets are those where your exhaled breath is recycled w ithin the set. Oxyg en is inhaled from a reservoir t hrough a circuit that incorporates a cooling system and a system which removes carbon dioxide from your exhaled breath. 40 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 The purpose of respiratory protect ion, whether they are open or closed circuit sets, is t o provide clean air in irrespirable at mospheres, such as: Ł High temperatures Ł Oxygen deficiency Ł Toxic gases & fumes Ł S mok e H igh visibility retro reflective vests To mak e w orkers more visible (day and night ) Ł D aylight hours - Type D (day only) garment; Florescent background only. Ł General use - Types D , N (day/night) garment; Florescent backg round with retro - reflective bands. Ł Hours of dark ness - Type N (night only) garment; Retro - reflective bands on a non specified back ground. The follow ing Australian Standards are applicable to PPE: Ł AS /NZS 4501.1.2008 Œ Occupational prot ect ive clothing Ł AS /NZS 2210.1:2010 Œ Safet y, prot ective and occupational footw ear Ł AS /NZS 2161.1:2000 Œ Occupational prot ect ive gloves Ł AS /NZS 1337.1:2010 Œ Personal eye protection Ł AS /NZS 1716:2012 Œ Respiratory protective equipment Ł AS /NZS 1800:1998 Œ Occupational protect ive helmets 41 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 SEC T ION 4 : SAFETY SIGNS AND TAGS S afety signs form an important part of site safety as a means of visual communicat ion t o be easily underst ood. A safety sign is an important administrative control used to call attention to potential hazards on site. SAFETY AND LOCKOUT TAGS Da nger Tag s are used for w hen a person is w orking on isolated equipment, being placed on the main isolating device once the device has been set to the non - dangerous position providing informat ion to ot her w orkers t hey must not operate the device until t he t ag is removed. O ut of Service T ags are used To identify faulty equipment or equipment that is being serviced SAFETY SIGNS All signs must be created to meet the Australian Standard. Safety signs are classified into four categories according to their function. They are: EMERGENCY INFORMATI ON SI GNS Emergency information sig ns inform or give direct ions to emergency exit s, emergency/first aid facilities or equipment. S ignage is g reen wit h w hit e symbols and/or text. FIRE SI GNS Fire signa ge indicat es locat ion of fire - fighting equipment and alarms. Signage is red with white symbols and/or text. HAZARD SI GNS Danger signs warn of a potential hazard or a hazardous condit ion t hat is possibly life threatening. The text ‚ D anger ™ is illust rated inside a red oval which in encased in a black rectan gle wit h black text underneath. Warning signs warn of a potential hazard or a haz ardous condit ion t hat is possibly life threatening. The hazard symbol is illustrated in black encased in a t riangle on a yellow backg round w it h black text underneath. REGULATORY SI GNS Prohib ition signa ge specifies behaviour or actions w hich are not permitted. The red circle border and slash is illust rat ed in red placed over the black action symbol, signage text is black on a w hit e backgroun d. Mandatory signs indicate that an instruction must be fulfilled. S ymbols are illustrated in w hite on a blue circular background; signage text is black on a w hit e back ground. Limitation/Restriction sig na ge place a numerical or ot her defined limit on an activity or use of a facility e.g. speed restrict ion. GENERAL INFORMATION SIGNS General Informat ion Signs convey useful informat ion to t he public clearly and professionally SEC T ION 5 : LICENCES & CERTIFICATES OF COMPETENCY Throughout t his induct ion program we have promoted t he role of competent personnel undertaking specific workplace activities in order to reduce the risk to health and safety. This section will cover the requirements for licences and Certificates of Competency t o perform w ork on const ruct ion sit es. Certain t ypes of w ork can be hazardous and require specific sk ills, capabilit ies and licences. Under the model WHS Regulations , licences are required for: high risk w ork asbestos