be engaged in the health and safety risk management process. 16 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 4. RISK CO NTROL Once hazards are identified and assessed, measures to eliminate or minimise them by controlling the hazard should be determined in accordancew ith the hierarchy of control. Elimina te Remove the hazard completely from the workplace (e.g. remove trip hazards on the floor or dispose of unwant ed chemicals). This is the most effective control measure and must always be considered before anything else . Substitute Substitute or replace the hazard with a less hazardous work practice (e.g. replace solvent based paints with water - based paint s). Isolate As much as possible, separate the hazard or hazardous work practice from people by distance or using barriers (e.g. place guards around moving parts of machinery). 17 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 Eng ineering controls Engineering controls are methods that are built into the design of a plant, equipment or process to minimize the hazard. Engineeringcontrolsare a very reliablew ay to control worker exposures as long as the controls are designed, used and maintained properly. Administrative controls These should only be considered w hen ot her higher order cont rol measures are not pract icable. These are w ork methods orprocedures that are designed tominimise theexposure to a hazard (e.g. develop a procedure on how to operate machinery safely or use s ig ns to warn people of a hazard ) . Signs and JSEAs are examples of administrative controls. 18 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 Pers ona l p rotective equipment (PPE) Ear muffs, hard hats, mask s, gloves, prot ect ive eyew ear and ot her forms of PPE should be a last option as they do nothing to change the hazard itself. Effectiveness also relies on the proper fit, use and maintenance of the equipment . 5. REVIEW Few workplaces stay the same and as a result your risk assessment should be reviewed and updated to ensure safety is maintained (e.g. changes such as weather conditions, changes to personnel or new equipment) 19 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 RISK MANAGEMENT DOCUMENTATION AND HAZ ARD REPO RTING JOB SAFET Y ANALYSIS (JSA) Ł This document identifies hazards, determines control measuresand assesses the risk. SAFE WORK METHOD STAT EMENT (SWMS) Ł This document breaks the job dow n into steps, identifies hazards, determines control measures and identifies the responsible person. This documen t MUST be completed for all HIG H RISK CONSTRUCTION WO RK . Risk assessment documents may have other t itles such as . . . JHA Œ Job Safety Analysis JSEA Œ Job Safet y & Environment al Analysis Take 5 Œ task - based risk assessment. And more –. Cont inuously be on the lookout for potential hazards, if it is reasonably pract icable t o control t hem and not be put at risk , then fix it. If you can™t fix it , then isolate it. Otherwise rep ort itprompt ly t o your supervisor or healt h andsafet y representative. Assist all members of the w ork team with site health and safety play an active part and be aw are of safety issues. It could be you, your w ork mat e or a friend that suffers the effects of an accident. HAZARD MANAGEMENT Remember if you cause or see a haz ardous situation DO NOT HIDE IT!!!! 20 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 Report it s o the entire work team can be made aware and learn from it!! Re cord a de scri pti on of the hazard /s Identi fy possi bl e remedies to remove or control the hazard/s 21 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 CO NSTRUCTION HAZ ARDS Asbestos If asbestos is disturbed it can release dangerous fine particles of dust containing asbestos fibres. Breathing in dust containing asbestos fibres can cause asbestosis, lung cancer and mesothelioma. This subst ance is (and will cont inue to be for some t ime yet) t he biggest k iller of work ers in Australia. The requirements of the Mod el Code of Pra ctice for How to safely remove asbestos of Asbestos and the Model Code of Practice How to manage and control asbestos in the workplace should be adhered to. Bond ed form: In eaves, ceilings, wet areas, floor t iles, pipes, some glues and mast ics. Friable form: Around hot water pipes, fire retardant on structural steel. Asbestos can be found in more areas than the ones listed and you should not ify your supervisor if any suspect material is found . D O NOT attempt to remove any asbestos w ithout prior know ledge or appropriate training in the procedures required. Also see SECTION 5: LICENCES & CERTIFICATES OF COMPETENCY 22 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 SYNTHETIC MINERAL FIBRES (SMF™S) These include: Ł Fibreg lass Ł Insulat ion Ł Ceramic Fibres Lik e asbestos , t hese fibres are able to be inhaled and can lead to very dangerous respiratory health issues. The requirements of Model Code of Practice for the S afe Use of Synthetic Mineral Fibres must be adhered to. CEMENT Corrosive effects on skin and eyes Respiratory disease R ead, understand and comply w ith the Safety Data She et (SD S) 23 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 HAZ ARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND DANGEROUS GOODS Hazardous substances are classified based only on health effects (w hether they are immediat e or long term), while dangerous g oods are classified according t o their immediate physical or chemical effects. Hazardous substances can be both a hazardous substance and dangerous goods. Hazardous substances can pose a significant risk to health andsafety if not managed correctly. They may have health hazards, physical hazards or both. Examples include: t oxic chemicals chemicals that cause skin damage carcinogens. flammable liquids compressed gasses explosives Dangerous goods D angerous goods are substances that are corrosive, flammable, combustible, explosive, oxidising or w ater - reactive or have other hazardous properties. D angerous goods can cause explosions or fires, serious injury, death and large - scale damage. D angerous goods are substances that are corrosive, flammable, combustible, explosive, oxidising or w ater - reactive or have other hazardous properties. D angerous goods can cause explosions or fires, serious injury, death and large - scale damage. Safety Data Sheets ( SDS ) are documents that provide critical information about hazardous chemicals , such as : the chemical™s identity and ingredients health and physical hazards safe handling and storage procedures emergency procedures disposal considerations. Businesses should use SD S w hen they assess the risks of hazardous chemicals in the w orkplace. They must be available to anyone handling the hazardous substance. In Australia, manufacturers and import er s of hazardous chemicals must prepare SD S in accordance with the model Code of Practice for the Preparation of Safety Data Sheets for Hazardous Chemicals . Failure to create an SDS correctly is a breach of WHS. A safety data sheet for a hazardous chemical must state the following informat ion about the chemical (in accordancew ith the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS) : Section 1 Š Ident ificat ion: product ident ifier and chemical identit y Section 2 Š Hazard(s) identification Section 3 Š Composition and informat ion on ingredient s Section 4 Š First aid measures 24 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 Section 5 Š Firefighting measures Section 6 Š Accidental release measures Section 7 Š Handling and stora ge, including how the chemical may be safely used Section 8 Š Exposure cont rols and personal prot ection Section 9 Š Physical and chemical properties Section 10 Š S t abilit y and reactivit y Section 11 Š Toxicolog ical information Section 12 Š Ecolog ical information Section 13 Š D isposal considerations Section 14 Š Transport information Section 15 Š Regulatory informat ion Section 16 Š Any other relevant information. COMPRESSED AIR/PRESSURE VESSELS Compressed air is used to run pneumatic t ools , such as: nail guns spray painting equipment j ackhammers . Most people see air as harmless but the fact it is ‚compressedﬂ is w hat makes it dangerous. 25 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 WORKING AT HEIGHTS One of the most common causes of workplace injuries is because of falls from height . It is essential when w orking at heights that a hazard assessment is undertaken, and safe systems of w ork are established and followed at all times . When a re you working a t h eights? ‚Work ing at height is whenever people are at risk of falling from, int o or t hrough from one level t o anot her or hitt ing others below by falling object s.™ You w ill notice t his appl ies to a fall by a person from one level to another rather than specifically to a fall from heig hts. For more information refer t o t he model Code of P ract ice ‚M anaging the risk of falls at workplaces ™. ‚Risk of fall™ m eans a circumstance that exposes a w ork er while at work, or ot her person while at or in the vicinit y of a w ork place, t o a risk of a fall that is reasonably lik ely t o cause injury to t he worker or ot her person. This includes circumstances in w hich t he w orke r or ot her person is : in or on plant or a structure that is at an elevated level in or on plant that is being used to gain access to an elevated level in the vicinity of an opening through which a person could fall i n the vicinity of an edge over w hich a person could fall o n or in the vicinity of a surface through w hich a person could fall on or near the vicinit y of a slippery, sloping or unstable surface. If you cannoteliminate theneed to w orkat height then acontrol measure may be to use d, such as using scaffolding or an elevating w ork platform. Remember: I t impo rtant to ensure all too ls and e quipment are saf e ly sec ure d when yo u are wo rking at he ight to re duce the risk o f an obje c t f alling and injuring some one below Also see SECTION 5: LICENCES & CERTIFICATES OF COMPETENCY 26 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 TEMPORARY WORK PLATFORMS A ‚t emporarywork plat form™ is a w ork ingplatform, ot her than a permanent ly installed fixed plat form, used t o provide a w ork ing area for t he durat ion of the job. The design of the plat form prevents w orkers from falling Temp ora ry work platforms used as a control mea sure to minimise the risk of fa ll when working a t heig hts, they include: S caffolds /Scaffolding (If you are carrying out scaffolding w ork w here there is a risk of a person or object falling more t han four met res, you must hold a scaffolding high - risk work licence). Elevat ing work platforms (EWP) (you need a High Risk Work Licence to operat e an EWP capable of reaching more