doctor. Exposure to a substance includes exposure to chemicals, airborne contaminants and exposure to human and/or animal blood and body substances. Not ification is also required for the follow ing serious illnesses: Any infect ion w here the work is a significant contribut ing fact or. T his includes any infect ion relat ed to carrying out w ork: (i) w it h micro - organisms (ii) that involves providing treatment or care to a person (iii) t hat involves contact with human blood or body subst ances (iv) t hat involves handling or cont act w ith animals, animal hides, sk ins, w ool or hair, animal carc asses or animal w aste products. Dangerous incidents including ‚near misses™ : S ome types of w ork - related dangerous incidents must be notified even if no - one is injured. 51 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 The regulator must be notified of any incident in relation to a workplace that exposes any person t o a serious risk result ing from an immediat e or imminent exposure t o: an uncontrolled escape, spillage or leakage of a substance an uncontrolled implosion, explosion or fire an uncontrolled escape of gas or steam an uncontrolled escape of a pressurised substance electric shock: o examples of electrical shock that are not notifiable shock due t o stat ic electricity ‚extra low volt age™ shock (i.e. arising from electrical equipment less than or equal to 50V AC and less than or equal to 120V DC) defibrillators are used deliberately to shock a person for first aid or medical reasons o examples of electrical shocks that are notifiable minor shock resulting from direct contact w ith exposed live electrical parts (other than ‚extra low volt age™) including shock from capacit ive discharge the fall or release from a height of any plant, substance or thing t he collapse, overturning, failure or malfunct ion of, or damage t o, any plant t hat is required to be design or item registered under the Work Health and Safety Regulations, for example a collapsing crane the collapse or partial collapse of a structure the collapse or failure of an excavation or of any shoring supporting an excavation the inrush of water, mud or g as in w orkings, in an underground excavation or t unnel, or the interruption of the main system of ventilation in an underground excavation or t unnel. A dangerous incident includes both immediate serious risks t o health or safet y, and also arisk from an immediat e exposure t o a subst ance w hich is lik ely t o creat e a serious risk to health or safety in the future, for example asbestos or hazardous chemical s . 52 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 Electric shock E xamples of electrical shocks that are not ifiable : minor shockresulting from direct contact w it h exposed live elect rical parts (other than ‚extra low voltage™) including shock from capacit ive discharge Rep orting electric shocks a nd incidents All incidents involving electricit y must be reported t o t he Office of t he Technical Regulator by the electrical worker or the occupier of the prem ises where t he incident occurs. REPORTING INCIDENTS TO THE REGULATOR It is t he responsibilit y of t he PCBU t o ensure that an incident report is completed and forwarded to the relevant authorities when required. You may be able to lodge an incident report online through the corresponding w ebsit e. S afeWo rk S A https://www.safework.sa.gov.au/law - compl iance/compliance - ri ghts/i ncidents/workplace - incident - noti fication 130 0 36 5 25 5 NT Wo rkS afe http://www.worksafe.nt.gov.au/LawsAndCompliance/P ages/incident - reporti ng.as px 180 0 01 9 11 5 Wo rkS afe WA https://www.commerce.wa.gov.au/worksafe/how - report - i n j ury - or - disease - 0 180 0 67 8 19 8 S afeWo rk NS W http://www.safework.nsw.gov.au/heal th - and - safety/Report - an - incident - or - i nju ry/noti fyi ng - us 13 10 5 0 W o r kS afe Q LD https://ols.workcoverqld.com.au/ols/public/incident/registration.wc 130 0 36 2 12 8 W o r kS afe VI C https://www.worksafe.vi c.gov.au/report - in cident 13 23 6 0 Wo rkS afe ACT https://www.accesscanberra.act.gov.au/app/answers/detail /a_i d/1767 ( 02) 62 07 3 000 Wo rkS afe T as m ania https://www.worksafe.tas.gov.au/safety/safety_subjects/subject/incident_notifi cation 130 0 36 6 32 2 FIRST AID The WHS Regulat ions place specific obligations on a PCBU in relation t o first aid, including requirement s to: Ł P rovide first aid equip ment and ensure each w ork er at t he w orkplace has access to the equipment Ł Ensure access to facilities for the administration of first aid Ł Ensure that an adequate number of w orkers are trained to administer first aid at the workplace or that w orkers have access to an adequate number of other people w ho have been t rained to administer first aid. 53 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 I f there is an incident o n site that re quire s f irst aid, you sho uld c all the First Aid Of ficer to assist in the first instanc e. WORKERS COMPENSATION If you are unfortunate enough to be injured at w ork you may be required to lodge a report with Return to Work /Work Cover . If you are injured at work you have obligations t o meet t o achieve t he best recovery and return to work out comes. Your employer also has obligations to support you in your recovery and return to w ork. 1. Not ify your employer 2. S ee a doct or 3. S peak t o a claims specialist For the purposes of sect ion 111(1) of the Workers Rehabilitation and Compensation Act , a person aggrieved by a decision of the authority under Part 3 or 9 has a right to apply t o t he Court for the court t o review t he decision. NS W S t at e I ns u ranc e R egu lat o ry Au t ho rity https://www.si ra.nsw.gov.au/theres - been - an - in ju ry/i nju ry - advice - centre 13 10 5 0 Wo rk Co v er Qu eens land https://www.worksafe.ql d.gov.au/about - us/workcover - queensland 130 0 36 2 12 8 W o r k Co ve r T as m an ia https://www.workcover.tas.gov.au/ 130 0 36 6 32 2 NT Wo rk S afe http://www.worksafe.nt.gov.au/WorkersCompensation/return - to - work/P ages/defaul t.aspx 180 0 25 0 71 3 R et u rn t o Wo rkS A www.rtwsa.com 13 18 5 5 Wo rk Co v er WA www.workcover.wa.gov.au 130 0 79 4 74 4 Wo rkS afe Vic t o ria www.worksafe.vi c.gov.au /claims 180 0 13 6 08 9 Ac c es s Canberra www.accesscanberra.act.gov.au/app/answers/detai l /a_id/2989/~ /workers - compensation 13 22 8 1 54 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 SEC T ION 7 : C ONSTRUC T ION EMERGENC IES This sect ion provides information in relation t o common site emergencies, industry evacuat ion and t he provision and use of firefighting equipment. An emergency is defined as a serious , unexpected , a nd dangerous situat ion requiring immediate action . Call 000 or 112 (mobile) if you require the assistance of the emergency services. D o not attempt to enter the dangerous situation yourself. You could make things w orse and put yourself and others in further danger. Incidents that may be deemed a c onstruction emergenc y could include t he follow ing: Ł chemical spill age Ł fire Ł injury to personnel Ł st ruct ural collapse Ł t oxic or flammable vapour emission Ł vehicle or mobile plant accident Follow your sit e™s emergency procedures. If in doubt , call 000 t o access the emergency services. All sit es are different by w ay of location, type of project, number of w ork ers and equipment used. It is critical there is a formal emergency plan covering evacuation and fire prevention. An Eme rge ncy Plan must be part of the overall work plan EMERGENCY EVACUATION PROCEDURES All construction sites must have: Ł An appropriat e procedure for t heprotect ion of personnel in t he event of fire or other emergencies occurring in t he w orkplace Ł Approved key personnel appointed and trained to take control during an emergency procedure Ł All occupants are instructed in the workplace emergency procedure EMERGENCY PLAN Ł An effective system for alerting emergencypersonnel andactivating emergency procedures Ł An immediate response aimed at elimination or early containment of threat Ł A localised group or person to implement the safety plan 55 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 Ł A reliable communications system Ł A simple, effective and generally accepted evacuation procedure Ł Set - up and inform all people on site of the safe assembly point Ł D isplay in a prominent position the local emergency telephone numbers & procedures EMERGENCY PLAN RESPONSIBILITY Overall compliance with the emergency plan and procedure is the responsibility of t he employer and/or t heir representat ive w ho is in control of t he work place. IN AN EMERGENCY K eep calm Raise alarm Obtain help FIRE PREVENTION Ł Waste materials and accumulated dust being removed on a regular basis Ł Having flammable materials kept or handled in a safe manner that minimises the risk of fire Ł Use of appropriat e w arning sig ns Ł S uitable fire fighting equipment readily available before commencing hot work Ł When required use ﬁspottersﬂ w hen performing hot work FIRE FIGHTING EQUIPMENT AND SELECTION Workers must be trained and competent in fire prevention measures and the procedures t o be followed in case of fire or other emergencies. Training should include t he use of on - site fire - fight ing equipment (e.g . fire extinguishers and fire hoses) and w hen t he use of such equipment is (and is not) appropriate. All personnel should undertake regular fire drills, including evacuat ion of the premises. D epending on t he number of w orkers and t he size of t he work place, individuals may need to be appointed to overseeanevacuation,and trained accordingly as fire w ardens. 56 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 Fire bla nkets can be used to extinguish small fires in the home, caravan, boat or garage. They can also be used to wrap around a person whose clothes have caught alight . Fire Hose reels are connected to the w ater mains, providing a cont inuous flow of w ater and are therefore useful as a ﬁfirst attackﬂ appliance during the early stages of a fire The table on the next page identifies the types of fire extinguishers and their purpose 57 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 58 CPCWHS1001 Prepare to work safely in the cons truction indus try Learning Materials v1. 1 SEC T ION 8 : SAFE WORK PRAC TICES Work ers must be provided wit h safe systems of w ork. A PCBU (employer) may ut ilise several methods to ensure you can follow safe w ork practices w hen performing w ork t ask s and using equipment , t hese include: Ł Standing Operating Procedures (SOP™s) Ł Task specific training Ł Verification of Skills and or competency WHS MANAGEMENT PLAN A d ocumented , easily underst ood , WHS Management plan should be developed before any